I do not know about you, but to me, about 90% of the movies you can see in cinemas nowadays are dull. I know that it is mostly about popcorn and soda, hanging out with friends, and having fun, but in my 30s, I still cannot get rid of the idea that a movie should be not just about visuals and the wow-effect, but also about deep emotions and contemplation. I believe movies should be thought-provoking, dramatic, even hard to watch sometimes. Okay, I know that I am sounding like a grumpy grandpa, and I do value entertaining movies, but I hate the fact that it is difficult to find a serious and dramatic film.

Anyways, today I am reviewing a movie that has been living in the warmest and coziest corner of my heart since 2014: Interstellar. Although there are hundreds of reviews written about it and thousands of lances broken over its scientific credibility, I still feel like there is something more to say. This review is going to be more of a reflecting glance, a contemplation, rather than an overview of well-known facts.

I remember the impression I got from seeing the movie’s poster for the first time. It felt like Interstellar was going to be about a great discovery, an epic voyage. From the first glance, it was evident that Nolan was not about making a “pew-pew laser spaceship” film. I felt interested, but somehow I missed the whole Interstellar hype train—so all the fuss about Kip Thorne’s participation in the production process, scientifically-credible visualizations, and other advertisements passed by me. I had more of a benevolent but neutral attitude—something like, “Well, I hope they make a nice story out of it.” On the premiere night, I had better things to do, and even two weeks after it, I remained the last person among the people I know who had not seen the movie yet.

I swallowed the bait when one of my friends posted on Facebook: “Interstellar is like Kubrick’s Odyssey, only filmed in 2014.” In my book, I would not compare Nolan’s work to Kubrick’s masterpiece, but I liked the movie. In fact, I liked it so much that I watched it three times: twice in two days, and once more a week after.

Interstellar gave me the same feeling I had when I was reading Asimov or Bradbury in my teen years: a powerful romantic sensation of conquering new, unknown frontiers. I love the word “frontiers”—to me, it is always about distant and uncharted places, and this is exactly what Interstellar is about. It is about almost reckless courage, self-denying dedication, and a desperate search for a better future. It is a movie about love and seeing all your hopes crumble. It is about revealing a truth so grand that one’s mind cannot grasp it.